# Online-Shoper-intention
Overview
Retailers are always eager to boost their sales and increase customer experience. Tracking customer activity can help to understand how a consumer behaves and how to improve and serve them better. Since the pandemic occurred the E-Commerce industry saw a major boom and customer’s all over the world are now actively involved in purchasing items online. Buyers often spend a significant time surfing on e-commerce sites before purchasing any product and this time spent is a positive sign for store owners who are always looking for attractive offers to attract customers. The way customers behave online is extremely important to study as it is an - unbiased, unbridled and unbelievably large levels of accurate consumer data.
With millions of purchasing possibilities at our disposal, consumer behaviour in this era is always evolving! Purchasing a simple service or product is no longer straightforward; the consumer now has a lot to consider before deciding. Often despite product being good it is often abandoned in the shopping cart as the buyer has most likely found a better deal or a greater value alternative somewhere else. Predictive Analytics can help clients in increasing demand, sales by forecasting historical consumer behaviour. Predictive analytics utilizes historical data to predict future trends and patterns. It is extremely contributing to foreseeing future values and enabling businesses to reduce risk and costs. It uses early data to understand buying behaviour in certain circumstances. There have been various prediction and recommendation algorithms to understand consumer, so we decided to focus on predicting or classifying revenue contribution of each customer.
Problem Statement: 
In this project we will be trying to analyse web consumer behaviour and predict whether revenue will be generated from the given web analytics information of a customer. We would be using machine learning algorithms to classify revenue generation with the given time he spends on website. A lot of exploratory data analysis would be done to understand the customer behaviour like – which customers are serious and which are non-serious, analysing visitor type with revenue, relation between page value and revenue, analysing which category is demanded the maximum, monthly revenue we would access revenue for each month etc...
Business Perspective :
From the objectives mentioned above we would try to maximize the gain of insights for an e-commerce platform by providing predictive analytics on web consumer behaviour. Satisfying and retaining customers is the most challenging part of any business, through this project we would help e-commerce industry in decision-making to improve consumer experience, provide personalised recommendations and increase revenue. Spending too much time surfing before purchasing an item is a potential threat for e-commerce business as this increases chances of item not being purchased. Through this project we would focus on understanding the behaviour and patterns in online shopping by a buyer on a website. Focusing on customers who spend a lot of time surfing, business can introduce new marketing strategies for them and ease-out their experience by improving the recommendation and search engine algorithms. In, future after analysing this model business can run better by having segmented strategies for different segments of customer based on their web behaviour and increase their sales overtime.
Conclusion : 
Our main objective for working on this dataset was to help online business. In current times everything is shifting online. Offline purchasing owners have advantage of interacting with the customer which tells them a lot about whether that customer would purchase an item or not, but in online businesses customers information can only be seen through his/her online behaviour. Thus, it becomes important to understand the customer's intention of whether he would generate revenue or not and accordingly business owners can use their marketing strategies to target potential customers by giving them better discounts etc. Using web-information of customers we tried to analyse whether for a given customer information he/she would contribute to revenue or not. While plotting the roc curve for all the models below, we can see that Random Forest Classifier and Logistic Regression model have a close tie in ROC curve. Measuring all models at different parameters we can say that Random Forest Classifier is the best model as it gives the best accuracy and has a good auc score. But since our target variable is imbalanced, we could see its effect on our results as the variation in recall, precision and F1 score was quite high for classifying revenue generating customers.
